As Jehovah's servants, nothing brings us greater joy than worshiping the true God.
But we are also human.
This means that from time to time, any of us can and probably will experience unsettling moments.
Times when we question our worth.
For example, have you ever wondered about your true value in Jehovah's eyes?
Have you ever experienced moments of anxiety about your place in his organization?
Or have you struggled with feelings of worthlessness?
Such thoughts can erode our joy.
And we might even begin to doubt our personal worth to Jehovah.
If that has happened to you, you're not alone.
Centuries ago, the writer of Psalm 94 revealed that he too was overwhelmed by anxieties.
Let's read it together at Psalm 94 and verse 19.
The writer is addressing Jehovah.
When anxieties overwhelmed me, you comforted and soothed me.
Notice the footnote on verse 19, disquieting thoughts.
These can arise from factors such as guilt over the fact that we cannot do more in the ministry or in the congregation,
fear of the future of being separated from the ones we know and love and despair from being overlooked,
feeling that we don't really matter.
Disquieting thoughts are real and can overwhelm us at times.
We can rob us of our inner peace and our sleep.
And if we're not careful, they can even stifle our prayers, damaging our relationship with Jehovah.
Nothing would make Satan happier.
We never want that to happen, especially now, since this old world is so near to closing.
So what can help us to soothe these disquieting thoughts?
In this month's broadcast, we will find the answer in a heartwarming prophecy.
We hope that this inspired message will provide a strong scriptural basis to help you to dispel any feelings of inadequacy.
Which prophecy?
Well, please open your Bible to Isaiah chapter 56.
Here we read of one of the most touching expressions of Jehovah's appreciation for two groups of people.
Both groups wanted to serve Jehovah.
But under the Mosaic law, they were limited or even disqualified from fully participating in Jehovah's arrangement for pure worship.
Who were they?
Let's read Isaiah chapter 56, verse 3.
The foreigner, who joins himself to Jehovah should not say, Jehovah will surely separate me from his people.
And the eunuch should not say, look, I'm a dried-up tree.
Did you notice the two groups, foreigners or non-Israelites, and eunuchs, men who physically could not produce children?
They faced very difficult and possibly disheartening circumstances.
During Isaiah's time, uncircumcised foreigners were allowed to live in Israel, but they had no permanent ties with the nation.
Because of their status, they could not eat of the Passover meal.
And as a protection, the Israelites were not to associate closely with them.
But many foreigners came to love Jehovah, converted to pure worship, and served Jehovah alongside his people.
They were called proselytes.
Nevertheless, even they could not fully become part of the nation of Israel.
How would you feel if you were a foreigner alive at that time?
Your biggest fear would be getting cut off from God's people.
Might you have disquieting thoughts at times?
Consider the second group. Isaiah mentioned eunuchs.
These were men who had their reproductive organs removed.
It was the custom of Eastern pagan nations to make eunuchs out of some of the male children, taken captive in war,
and then assigned them to serve as trusted officials in royal courts or in other settings.
It appears that during the days of Isaiah, some of these Gentile eunuchs learned about Jehovah,
came to love him and decided to align themselves with Jehovah's people.
These eunuchs enjoyed a measure of acceptance among Jehovah's people, and they had the privilege of worshipping Jehovah.
However, because they were eunuchs, they could not become fully-fledged members of the congregation of Israel.
Plus, at that time and in that culture, they suffered great humiliation and not being able to father children.
Do you think they experienced disquieting thoughts at times? We know they did.
But Isaiah reveals something significant about this group. Jehovah loved them.
In effect, Jehovah says to them,
I know how you feel. Now, let me tell you how I feel about you.
Let's read Isaiah chapter 56, verses 4 and 5.
For this is what Jehovah says to the eunuchs,
who keep my Sabbaths and who choose what I delight in and who hold fast to my covenant.
I will give to them in my house and within my walls a monument and a name,
something better than sons and daughters,
an everlasting name I will give them, one that will not perish.
I will give them something better than sons and daughters, an everlasting name.
Their physical limitations did not diminish their value in the eyes of our loving God,
because of their whole soul obedience to Him.
Jehovah would always remember them. They would have an everlasting name, one that would not perish.
Jehovah treasured these faithful ones so much that he kept the memory of their service in his house,
within his walls, like a monument, so as to cherish them daily.
Imagine how those eunuchs felt now knowing that their God had something special reserved for them.
They knew Jehovah had heard their prayers.
They knew that their God felt compassion for them.
All those desquieting thoughts started to melt away.
Those comforting words started to heal their broken spirit.
But why did Jehovah make these promises to these two groups?
What did he see that others may not have?
We don't have all the details, but we do have some.
They are revealed to us much later in time,
and they give us valuable clues.
For example, in the book of Nehemiah,
we are introduced to two foreigners who are living among God's people.
There is a significant detail about their names.
Nehemiah chapter 3 and verse 7 tells us they were Melataya, the Ghibinite,
and Jaden, the Moranithite, who were of foreign descent.
Yet their names tell a different story.
What do they mean?
Melataya means Jaha has provided escape.
Jaden means Jehovah has given ear.
How did they get those names?
These men were likely born in Babylon.
Children of foreigners who joined in true worship in Israel,
and who were later taken captive in 607 BCE.
The parents of these men were not natural Israelites.
However, the names they chose for their children
reflected their devotion and love for Jehovah's name.
And the fact that these sons of non-Israelites
would want to share in rebuilding Jerusalem
shows how they themselves love Jehovah.
How did Jehovah feel about these foreigners?
Notice his prophetic words as we continue on at Isaiah chapter 56, verse 6 and 7.
As for the foreigners who joined themselves to Jehovah,
to minister to him, to love the name of Jehovah,
and to be his servants, all those who keep the Sabbath
and do not profane it, and who hold fast to my covenant.
I will also bring them to my holy mountain
and make them rejoice inside my house of prayer.
Their whole burnt offerings and their sacrifices
will be accepted on my altar from my house
will be called a house of prayer for all the peoples.
Jehovah noticed that these foreigners
faithfully observed the laws of a covenant
that they could never be fully a part of.
In verses 6 and 7,
Jehovah was in effect inviting them into his home,
a house of prayer for all the peoples,
Jew and foreigner alike.
Hearing these words must have lifted their heavy hearts.
But Jehovah did more than just tell them how much he valued them.
He showed them how.
Among the foreigners who returned to the ruins
of Jerusalem at 537 BCE,
were a particular group of foreigners
who had become proselytes,
and they included descendants of the Ghibinites,
a nation that had joined themselves to Israel
and served as gathers of wood and draws of water
for the assembly and for Jehovah's altar.
These descendants of the Ghibinites had spent decades
as captives in Babylon for crimes they did not commit.
They had no land inheritance back in Israel.
They were servants.
Yet they traveled back to Israel
and helped rebuild the temple
and the walls of Jerusalem.
What motivated them?
They loved Jehovah.
These descendants of Ghibin
expected nothing in return for their service
but they did receive something quite unexpected.
After the Israelites received their portioned land,
this group called the Nethanem,
who did not have a land inheritance,
were assigned a place to live.
Where would they be placed?
Outside the city, in a slum,
in some abandoned part of forgotten Jerusalem?
No. The Bible tells us they were assigned to live in Oful.
Now take a look at the map
and see for yourself
where Oful is located right next to the temple.
Jehovah made these humble gathers of wood his neighbors.
This underscores how much Jehovah loved
and cherished these faithful foreigners
who motivated by love
that all they could to share in his worship.
Well, what's the lesson?
Both the Unix and the foreigners were limited
and what they could do in God's service.
From a human standpoint,
they were probably considered less than ordinary.
Nothing special.
Perhaps some even considered them outcasts.
That is not how Jehovah viewed them.
He knew each one by name.
He listened to their prayers,
and he viewed each individual as a precious gem.
Where man sees the ordinary,
our Heavenly Father sees the extra ordinary.
To illustrate,
what do you see here?
If you are thinking sand, you are right.
Sand is one of the most common substances on the earth.
To us, it typically looks bland and ordinary.
Each particle identical to the next.
No color, no sparkle.
You never see someone show off a sand necklace or bracelet.
But what happens if you look at sand under the microscope?
To the naked eye, all sand looks the same and is pretty dull.
But magnified a hundredfold or more,
each individual grain of sand reveals distinct beauty.
We see parts of shells and crystals,
all contrasting in shapes and colors.
There is a treasure trove and a handful of sand.
That is how Jehovah sees each of you.
Just as he saw the faithful foreigners in Unix
for the precious gems that they were,
he sees you too.
Yes, you who may be restricted by age, health,
physical stamina, emotions,
or family responsibilities from doing
as much in some spiritual activities as you would like to.
But those limitations do not define you.
Remember that in God's eyes,
your worth as a person is not measured by how much you do,
but rather how much you try.
With eternity and perfection in view,
Jehovah chooses to see not your limitations,
but your potential.
When you serve Jehovah,
whole soul,
despite limited circumstances,
you sparkle in his eyes.
And because you shine so brightly in Jehovah's heart,
he will always help you.
He will always cherish you.
Do you remember the faithful Psalmist who wrote about
being overwhelmed by disquieting thoughts
at Psalm 94 and 19?
In the very next line,
he tells Jehovah,
you comforted and soothed me.
Well, by the way,
who wrote that Psalm?
We don't know his name,
but Jehovah does.
And he carefully preserved that unknown writer's words
for thousands of years in the Bible.
Like the Psalmist,
the foreigner,
the unique,
no matter the circumstances,
when you humbly served Jehovah,
when you try your best,
your work is never fruitless.
And everlasting name is reserved for each of you,
because your Heavenly Father cherishes you.